RHDEVDOCS-6444: Content creation for GitOps 1.15.2 (#92626)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-release-notes-1-15-2.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * release_notes/gitops-release-notes-1-15.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="gitops-release-notes-1-15-2_{context}"]
= Release notes for {gitops-title} 1.15.2

{gitops-title} 1.15.2 is now available on {OCP} 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, and 4.17.

[id="errata-updates-1-15.2_{context}"]
== Errata updates

[id="RHSA-2025:7753-gitops-1-15-2-security-update-advisory_{context}"]
=== RHSA-2025:7753 - {gitops-title} 1.15.2 security update advisory

> Issued: 2025-05-16

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issued: 2025-05-15
```

Author: Fixed.

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2025:7753[RHSA-2025:7753]

If you have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in the default namespace, run the following command to view the container images in this release:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-gitops-operator
----

[id="fixed-issues-1-15-2_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

* Before this update, Argo CD components, such as, `server`, `repo-server`, and `application-controller`, could crash when accessing the Redis instance due to network or DNS instabilities within the cluster. This issue stemmed from a race condition in the `go-redis` client library when multiple connections in a connection pool call the `dial hook` function. With this update, this issue is fixed. This update resolves the issue by integrating an updated `go-redis` client library that eliminates race conditions during `dial hook` function calls. It also improves the handling and recovery from network and DNS errors, ensuring greater stability for Argo CD components. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6287[GITOPS-6287]

> * Before this update, upgrading the {gitops-title} Operator to v1.15.1 raised a health check error that prevented Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (ACM) policies from syncing. This update fixes the issue by adding a missing nil check to `.status.placement` for *Policy*. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6664[GITOPS-6664]

Author: Fixed.

> * Before this update, when `.spec.source.targetRevision` was set to an annotated Git tag, Argo CD treated resource drift as needing reconciliation. This caused manual changes on the cluster to be reverted, despite self-healing being disabled. This behavior was inconsistent with that of lightweight tags. With this update, Argo CD now handles annotated and lightweight tags consistently. When `selfHeal` is set to `false`, manual changes to live resources are no longer reverted, even if you are using an annotated Git tag as the source. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6150[GITOPS-6150]

Author: Fixed.

> * Before this update, user-workload monitoring support for workloads did not require any configuration by default. Argo CD monitoring worked automatically when deployed in any namespace. With this update, monitoring support for Argo CD deployed in non-{OCP} namespaces requires user-workload monitoring to be enabled in {OCP}. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/latest/html/monitoring/configuring-user-workload-monitoring#configurable-monitoring-components_preparing-to-configure-the-monitoring-stack-uwm[Enabling monitoring for user-defined projects]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6251[GITOPS-6251]

Author: Fixed.

> * Before this update, monitoring support for workloads deployed in {OCP} namespaces, prefixed with `openshift-`, was available by default. Argo CD monitoring worked automatically only when deployed in {OCP} managed namespaces. With this update, monitoring support for Argo CD deployed in non-{OCP} namespaces requires monitoring for user-defined projects to be explicitly enabled in {OCP} Monitoring. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/latest/html/monitoring/configuring-user-workload-monitoring#configurable-monitoring-components_preparing-to-configure-the-monitoring-stack-uwm[Enabling monitoring for user-defined projects]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6251[GITOPS-6251]

Reviewer: > Before this update, monitoring support for workloads deployed in {OCP} namespaces, prefixed with `openshift-`, was available by default. 

This was the case even for non-prefixed ns, right?

> Argo CD monitoring worked automatically only when deployed in {OCP} managed namespaces.

Same as above, this case is after the upgrade.

Could you please clarify, Anand?

Author: Fixed.

> * Before this update, monitoring support for workloads deployed in {OCP} namespaces, prefixed with `openshift-`, was available by default. Argo CD monitoring worked automatically only when deployed in {OCP} managed namespaces. With this update, monitoring support for Argo CD deployed in non-{OCP} namespaces requires monitoring for user-defined projects to be explicitly enabled in {OCP} Monitoring. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/latest/html/monitoring/configuring-user-workload-monitoring#configurable-monitoring-components_preparing-to-configure-the-monitoring-stack-uwm[Enabling monitoring for user-defined projects]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6251[GITOPS-6251]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Before this update, monitoring support for workloads didn't require any configuraion by default. Argo CD monitoring worked automatically only when deployed in any namespaces. With this update, monitoring support for Argo CD deployed in non-{OCP} namespaces requires user-workload monitoring enabled in {OCP}. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/latest/html/monitoring/configuring-user-workload-monitoring#configurable-monitoring-components_preparing-to-configure-the-monitoring-stack-uwm[Enabling monitoring for user-defined projects]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6251[GITOPS-6251]
```

Author: Fixed.

    repoURL: https://github.com/my-org/my-app.git
    targetRevision: HEAD
    path: manifests
  destination:
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
    namespace: my-app-namespace
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      enabled: false #<1>
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
----
<1> This option enables or disables `autoSync`.

+
--
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6246[GITOPS-6246]
--

[id="fixed-issues-1-15-2_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

* Before this update, Argo CD components, such as, `server`, `repo-server`, and `application-controller` could crash when accessing the Redis instance due to network or DNS instabilities within the cluster. This issue stemmed from a race condition in the `go-redis` client library when multiple connections in a connection pool call the `dial hook` function. With this update, this issue is fixed. This update resolves the issue by integrating an updated `go-redis` client library that eliminates race conditions during `dial hook` function calls. It also improves the handling and recovery from network and DNS errors, ensuring greater stability for Argo CD components. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6287[GITOPS-6287]

> * Before this update, upgrading the {gitops-title} Operator to v1.15.1 raised a health check error that prevented Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (ACM) policies from syncing. This update fixes the issue by adding a missing nil check to `status.placement` for *Policy*. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6664[GITOPS-6664]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, upgrading the {gitops-title} Operator to v1.15.1 raised a health check error that prevented Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (ACM) policies from syncing. This update fixes the issue by adding a missing nil check to `.status.placement` for *Policy*. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6664[GITOPS-6664]
```

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * release_notes/gitops-release-notes-1-15.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="gitops-release-notes-1-15-2_{context}"]
= Release notes for {gitops-title} 1.15.2

{gitops-title} 1.15.2 is now available on {OCP} 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, and 4.17.

[id="errata-updates-1-15.2_{context}"]
== Errata updates

[id="RHSA-2025:7753-gitops-1-15-2-security-update-advisory_{context}"]
=== RHSA-2025:7753 - {gitops-title} 1.15.2 security update advisory

Issued: 2025-05-16

The list of security fixes that are included in this release is documented in the following advisory:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2025:7753[RHSA-2025:7753]

If you have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in the default namespace, run the following command to view the container images in this release:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-gitops-operator
----

[id="new-features-1-15-2_{context}"]

> == New features

Reviewer 3: No new features were added in this Z steram. This section can be removed IMO.

> * With this update, a new check box, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following benefits:

Reviewer 4: Did we want to go with _option_ or _parameter_ over check box, [as discussed](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/92626#discussion_r2077501740)?

Author: I think I will go with "Option" as per your suggestion @mburke5678.

> * With this update, a new checkbox, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following advantages:

Reviewer 4: I might say _benefits_? An advantage is something that is better than something else. Is that the case?
```suggestion
* With this update, a new checkbox, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following benefits:
```

> * With this update, a new checkbox, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following advantages:

Author: I think "benefits" sound good. I will keep it.

> * With this update, a new checkbox, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following advantages:

Reviewer 5: > [IBM Style Guide](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#c) says to use two words here, but our docs use one overwhelmingly.
> 
> Isn't a checkbox an GUI object, a little box? Isn't the new feature a parameter? Also, what is new? The entire `Automated` stanza with `enabled`, `prune`, `selfHeal`? Or just `enabled`? If all three parameters are new, do you need to define them?

Yes, the actual feature is the new enabled parameter added to the `spec.syncPolicy.automated` block in the Application spec. The checkbox in the UI is simply the front-end control that reflects this new backend field. [SEE](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/issues/21647)

Only the `enabled` field is new. The `prune` and `selfHeal` fields already existed and were part of the automated sync policy before this change. This update introduces `enabled` as a dedicated boolean to explicitly control whether auto-sync is on or off — instead of relying on the presence or absence of the entire automated block.

`prune` and `selfHeal` are already defined and documented in Argo CD. For this feature, the only new field that needs to be defined or documented is `enabled`. It defaults to true (to maintain existing behavior), and when explicitly set to false, it disables auto-sync — even if automated is defined.

Please see this [PR](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/pull/22482), also contains screenshots of the UI before and after the change.

> * With this update, a new checkbox, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following advantages:

Author: Fixed.

> * With this update, a new checkbox, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following advantages:

Reviewer 4: @Dhruv-Soni11 
> Yes, the actual feature is the new enabled parameter

I guess I wasn't clear. I think we should use _a new parameter_ or _a new option_ rather than _check box_. (I probably should have actually said that, if that's what I meant.) We say a new "check box" was added, then show the YAML example.

+
--
** Enables or disables auto-sync behavior independently of `prune` and `selfHeal`.
** When set to `true`, auto-sync is enabled.
** When set to `false`, auto-sync is explicitly disabled even if the `automated` block exists.
** Defaults to `true` for backward compatibility.
--
+
.Example
[source,YAML]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/my-org/my-app.git
    targetRevision: HEAD
    path: manifests
  destination:
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
    namespace: my-app-namespace
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      enabled: false #<1>
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
----

> <1> This option enables or disables `autoSync`. This option explicitly disables automated sync, even when automated sync is enabled.

Reviewer 4: Is this correct?
```suggestion
<1> This option enables or disables `autoSync`. Setting the option to `false` explicitly disables automated sync, even when automated sync is enabled.
```

Author: Fixed.

+
--
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6246[GITOPS-6246]
--

[id="fixed-issues-1-15-2_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

> * Before this update, Argo CD components, such as, `server`, `repo-server`, and `application-controller` could crash when accessing the Redis instance due to network or DNS instabilities within the cluster. This issue stemmed from a race condition in the `go-redis` client library when multiple connections in a connection pool call the `dial hook` function. With this update, this issue is fixed. This update resolves the issue by integrating an updated `go-redis` client library that eliminates race conditions during `dial hook` function calls. It also improves the handling and recovery from network and DNS errors, ensuring greater stability for Argo CD components. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6287[GITOPS-6287]

Reviewer 4: I think we need a comma here. 
```suggestion
* Before this update, Argo CD components, such as, `server`, `repo-server`, and `application-controller`, could crash when accessing the Redis instance due to network or DNS instabilities within the cluster. This issue stemmed from a race condition in the `go-redis` client library when multiple connections in a connection pool call the `dial hook` function. With this update, this issue is fixed. This update resolves the issue by integrating an updated `go-redis` client library that eliminates race conditions during `dial hook` function calls. It also improves the handling and recovery from network and DNS errors, ensuring greater stability for Argo CD components. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-6287[GITOPS-6287]
```

Author: Fixed.

If you have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in the default namespace, run the following command to view the container images in this release:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-gitops-operator
----

[id="new-features-1-15-2_{context}"]
== New features

* With this update, a new checkbox, `.spec.SyncPolicy.Automated`, has been added to the Argo CD Application resource to explicitly enable or disable `automatedSync`. This option provides the following advantages:
+
--
** Enables or disables auto-sync behavior independently of `prune` and `selfHeal`.
** When set to `true`, auto-sync is enabled.
** When set to `false`, auto-sync is explicitly disabled even if the `automated` block exists.
** Defaults to `true` for backward compatibility.
--
+
.Example
[source,YAML]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/my-org/my-app.git
    targetRevision: HEAD
    path: manifests
  destination:
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
    namespace: my-app-namespace
  syncPolicy:
    automated:

>       enabled: false #<1>

Reviewer 5: May be add a comment here, to say something like, this new option now explicitly disables Automated sync, even when it is enabled?

Author: Fixed.

      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
----

> <1> This option enables or disables `autoSync`.

Reviewer 5: when viewing [HERE](https://92626--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-gitops/latest/release_notes/gitops-release-notes-1-15.html#gitops-release-notes-1-15-2_gitops-release-notes:~:text=true%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20selfHeal%3A%20true-,1,This%20option%20enables%20or%20disables%20autoSync.,-GITOPS%2D6246), looks like a space is needed for better formatting?

Author: Hey @aali309, I understand that the formatting looks bad in the preview, but I want to assure you that it will look much better when it is published. But thanks for raising this concern. I will keep an eye on this issue when I am publishing the content to check how it looks. For now, it is just a badly formatted line in a bad preview.
